The visualization practices and the completion stage practices. Both are equally important.
The visualization practices are the starting practices with the poem and the song and then go to
the nature of the mind, not the mind.
So it is in a way embracing whole things, bring out everything as an enlightened status. Because
there is, in the phenomenon of all, there is three things, poem, song and the space of the mind.
The visualization practices start with the poem, the poem and the song, then it captures the mind
and the whole thing.
So that is known as the visualization practices in the Vedayana teachings. The completion stage
practices, of course there are two things, but if you talk about the completion stage, the final
completion stage is practicing on the mind, the nature of the mind, completely in a great emptiness
, all great, natural, absolute state.
And the practice of that, and then again coming out, understanding the song and the poem, again,
same thing.
One is directed on the front, on the spotlight, other is coming from the emptiness, emptiness to
the poem.
And one is going from the poem to the emptiness or the absolute state. It is basically two
approaches.
And now we begin to talk about this completion stage, great completion stage.
So that means to the absolute stage. To do the absolute practices and then the greatest teacher,
Bodhakshatyamuni, gave two instructions, two hymns and stockings.
Those are known as the samatha practices and vivashana practices, these two practices, samatha and
vivashanas.
And that means, actually, who is going to practice? Who is going to discover these natures?
Nature as it is, with all the continually, kind of like, acting disturbed by the dualities.
Who is going to do? It is mind. Mind is going to practice. Our mind.
So therefore, chamatha is completely designed through stabilizing our mind.
Our mind. That also means, of course, we all know ourselves. It is not something mystery to each of
us.
Our mind is very active. And if I use the word active, if I use another word, it is restless.
Mind is restless all the time. Time will wake up early in the morning until we fall asleep.
It is active all the time. Active or restless. All the time.
And then, when we fall asleep, also unless we fall deep sleep, otherwise our mind is active as a
dream walk.
So virtually, if I speak in almost 20 hours, our mind is active or restless.
This is what the Buddha teaching said. It is like turbulence. Turbulence. Turbulence is going on
all the time.
When the turbulence of the mind is going on, what is it doing? It is not just the only mind alone.
Our channels are active. Our breathings are active. Our physicals are active. Our energies are so
restless.
When it becomes so strong and so tense, then we can begin problems such as psychological problems,
mental problems, emotional problems. Those are reflective and then physically begin to change too.
Shape and formation, complexion, all that change. Because mind is so restless, all those turbulence
are going on like that.
And when that happens, what is our mind? We are not in peace. We are not in rest for status.
We are not in calm and peaceful. Completely on the surface, we are wandering.
Our mind, our space, our physical universe or the world is in a way completely covered of the
hurricane or the cyclone
or these tropical depressions on the surface. There is nothing really coming up out of the shining
sun, sunshine of the nature.
It is completely disturbed. Even things externally look good. Everything looks good.
Luxury is rich and famous. Wellness, all these things. But mind is not rest. It just doesn't make
any big difference.
It just rest. That is how the mind is. That is opposite of the shamatha.
Shamatha means what? Calmly abiding. Now, when mind is that status, it is not calmly abiding.
It is turbulence abiding. Total turbulence abiding. That is how mind is.
And then what will I use? Drunk monkey mind. Drunk, not just a monkey mind, drunk mind.
Or drunk elephant mind. That is how it is. And then we really don't have any fears.
For that reason, shamatha is important. You should do the shamatha.
Shamatha is also what in the teaching, every great master says, everyone says, in the Buddha says,
again and again,
with all the shamatha meditation, we won't get realizations. That means mind is not rested. Not
rested.
So therefore, good shamatha is really foundation of all the realizations. So for that reason, again
, I'm going to really avoid shamatha.
Shamatha, many of you know already all these things, but however, again, as I said yesterday, those
who know is reminded to each other,
is reminded from me and reminded to you. And those who don't know, it is important. As is already,
I succeed.
Now, when you come out of meditation, again, physical posture is the same thing as I said yesterday
.
Regular postures or seven postures, or whatever comfortable you are going to sit on the cushion or
the floor, be comfortable.
And what is, again, in the teaching, I said yesterday too, when you ask what is important,
when you meditate in physical level, comfortable, relaxed, spacious, kind of feel comfortable, feel
very relaxed, that is what we need.
And when you do that, it will balance our body, and then balance that energy, balance the mind,
those all I see.
And then you did, again, we did all this devotion and praise, and all this reflecting mind, all
that.
And now, when you come to the practice itself, the shamatha itself, there is two shamathas.
And there is many shamathas. Buddha gives so many instructions about the shamatha, a variety of the
techniques of the shamatha.
Cheating Buddha gives, but I am going to talk to you about Jainakar, two systems of shamatha.
After, shamatha that use the support from outer object, outside, shamatha that use the support from
inside.
That means outside our physical, and then inside our body.
And that also divided into two.
According to the instructions of the great master woman Madhana, and our kettipadishya also said in
a minute time.
There is that outer can be, so you can be divided into two.
And that is, the first one is the holy object, and only the objects.
And only the object, just whatever you feel you like to use as support of your folks.
It is small marbles, or crystals, or something kind of kitschy, small things.
Small things that you will put right in front of your distance.
Again, in the Buddha teaching, mentioned distance of the one york. Y-O-R-K. Right?
York. Y-O-K-E. Y-O-K-E. Y-O-K-E. One york. Distance of one york, and cut off on your front, and
looking towards the tip of the nose, as I said, yes sir.
Looking at it. And that is the only object for the support.
This is the support for the chamata support.
And the holy object as statue of the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Small Buddha Shakyamuni statue, also the same distance. One york distance.
And there is on a small table, you put that Buddha, or small cushion, nice cushion. On the top of
that, you put the Buddha statue.
So now, whether it is a holy object, or a regular object, only an object, both are supported for
the Chamata meditations.
Chamata meditations.
This object, what it will do, as I used already, is support. It will support to stabilizing our
running, trouble-less mind.
It will support. It will kind of affect the use of the word. It will anchor down our mind. It will
help to anchor down our mind.
Now, with that meaning, when you put that Buddha statue or just a regular object, now you are going
to concentrate that.
And how? You are going to brain in a way your mind, not in a way, brain-mind to the two eyes.
Focus up to the two eyes, and now two eyes, semi-open, looking to that object.
It is the piece of marble, or the Buddha.
Every Buddha looks to the third eye spot of Buddha.
Hence, the person with the Buddha, particularly third eye spot of the Buddha, you are going to look
.
So that means, you are now really, in a way, created in a triangle, in a way, triangle from where
you put the eyes, both eyes, looking.
The mind is coming, and looking at the triangle, and pointed, and now you are looking to the third
eye spot of the Buddha Chakra meditations.
Buddha Chakra meditations.
And do that with a little bit, kind of, strongly. Concentrate it, that means.
Strongly concentrate, you are going to look to that.
And my mind is with the eye, and I is with both eyes, I to the support of the Buddha, the Buddha's
third eye.
And it is that. Concentrate on that. Concentrate.
That means, when you use the word concentration, I think, in the head, that.
That means, some kind of, some duty of the strength.
Strength that you are going to use. Concentrate.
In a debate, not as ting yin zi, ting yin zi, means concentrate.
Stay forward, upholding that concentration. Concentrate.
And see how long your mind stays with that third eye spot of the Buddha's Chakra meditations.
That how long?
That means, this time, you are not letting go of mind to any of the places.
As we said yesterday, mind is not going in the past memories.
Mind is not broken in the future plans.
Mind is not wandering now, any places. Just only that.
Every your concentration of the past, the present, the future, come together, one single state to
that sport.
Be kind of vigilantly concentrating to that sport.
How long are we can keep concentrating without mind went away, or without monkey mind went away?
And we can keep that in the first, maybe, one minute.
Minute. That is good, actually. It's nothing wrong.
It's one minute. We really can keep that.
And we can keep two minutes, or one and a half minutes, two minutes, three minutes.
That is not stabilizing the concentration. It's called stabilizing.
It is now stabilizing. Stabilizing.
And while you meditate that, and our monkey mind becomes even at the beginning time.
Those who did long meditation, different.
But if it's big in meditation, even it won't stay one minute.
It looks like mind is more active than ever.
Ever. It looks so restless. You will feel that.
This is the teaching said, it's not mind is restless more active now, but now you are seeing that.
Before we don't notice that, we just always think that's it, we don't notice at all.
Now our mind, we are putting in a rare sports. rare sports.
So you see, you detect more clearly that.
Which means good in this case. You recognize how mind is active, that.
But without a tired, without a bored, or any question, this and why, this and that.
And if we do those questions only, then we are making more mind, more restless mind.
That is not so compact. Without question, anything just comes again.
Again. On that sports. Do that again and again.
And every can stay that mind for five minutes, which is really wonderful and very good.
Or while you are doing this, while you are concentrating, maybe you can also occur at zoky level,
you can start joining us.
Concentrating mind to that and sometimes joining us so softly, just so softly.
And see how long you can hold. And I, you start counting, counting.
We don't again focus on that, counting with the fingers.
Each finger has three lines, lines. And you start counting it up, one feet.
Just very softly. Only you, who will hear it up, you will hear it.
No one else, not anybody must hear it. But count.
And you can do 50, that means five, up to 50. That means 50 times up.
That means more than 20 seconds, or maybe more than that, in mind state.
So that means you are using the object, supporting to our causes, object at the same time we are
using cigarette syllables.
Blessings. Bless cigarette syllables that we are using.
That is what we put. That is what we call meditating on the outer support of the object.
External object. Object. Whether it is holy or whether it is only.
Inwardly support again. Now there is not any external outside, but same thing.
Again, holy object and a regular again. Regular or both, maybe according to Zouki level, both are
now holy objects.
Inwardly, according to the great master Gomar Matar teaching, and Kenki Patishan, many times say,
and we have legalized, again, inwardly, in our heart center.
Small Buddha. Totally, absolutely, of course, Buddha is totally enlightened.
It is transcendental vs. run body. Buddha. That's the concentration of the Buddha.
Small Buddha, one type, size of thumbs, like this, just small, the glowing Buddha, this, this size.
So that means maybe three inches, or two inches. Just this. One of these. One inch.
One inch. One inch. One inch. One inch is small, even smaller.
But just part of the proportion, part of the glowing, part of the radiating light,
just so calm, so peaceful, and full of love, that's what the Buddha is.
And just meditating, meditating inwardly to that, and concentrate on that.
That is, then same thing, how long our mind is.
And then another one is, again, it's similar things.
According to the Zouki level, or not more, in the Zouki teaching,
and that great master, his whole religion, we measure.
Visualizing right here, Tadaisport, small light, small glowing white light here.
Inside white light, small white R, small white R.
R is A, H, R, I think, maybe, or very R, either one.
But very small and glowing, glowing, glowing, and concentrating.
Again, you can close eyes, need it, close eyes, and concentrate on that.
And again, how long your mind can stay, stay, and use those supports.
Once your mind is more stabilized that way, and then release all those objects,
focus outside, inner things, and just relax neutral steps.
We don't, again, say anything, no past, no future, no present thoughts,
or wonder anyway, just simply relax.
Relaxing calm and peaceful. Peaceful.
This is how we begin the meditation.
Meditation, that is how we need the foundation of the meditation.
And this is the meditation, it's then, again, so powerful, so special.
It will help to increase our understanding of knowledge, wisdom, of wisdom,
and our love, and our compassion.
Also, it will increase more patience, more kind of skills and methods.
And the benefit of the meditation is so, in there, it will bring more mindfulness,
more alertness, it will bring all those beautiful things.
The benefits are by meditation, by Mother Chagimani, all those great masters.
Man can do so many times again, and again, and again.
This is not just the meditation, but in the modern time,
now we see, even in the mainstream of the United States,
meditation of the mind is become so popular here, so popular.
Maybe ten years ago, during meditation, maybe they don't like to hear their names,
it helps them out, strange things, it makes more sense.
Now it becomes more popular, because of the benefit of the meditation,
our mindfulness, that's really how it is.
So this is the foundation of the meditation.
It is really important.
Even when you do the Dokkin meditation, before the Dokkin meditation,
or in one second, one second, have this meditation for at least five minutes,
or two minutes, three minutes, stabilize the mind.
Then Dokkin meditation, then it is good.
So that is my breathing about the Shammatas.
Now we try to start with our Dokkin meditation,
because otherwise I won't be in trouble like that.
What happens with Dokkin teaching or something?
So now I will do Dokkin teaching.
Now with that foundation, Dokkin teaching, now we begin to practice.
And this is an instruction according to these teachings.
This is really teaching, this is Dokkin teaching.
But now we are talking about Dokkin.
Dokkin has two famous practices, many of you know it,
not just many of you.
Most all of you know this.
It is known as Tukkyu and Togga practices.
And Tukkyu and Togga both are very important.
Those are so special, because why it is important is the essence of nature where things are.
Exactly.
And it is not that this Dokkin practice is exactly what the Buddha realized,
what the Buddha achieved.
When you become the Buddha, what do you rely on?
You usually rely on Dokkin, Dokkin realization.
That is what it is.
So it is the essence of the practice, or essence of realization.
This is the Dokkin teaching.
Now Dokkin teaching, when you do practices,
again it needs all that foundation.
Without those foundation, what I said yesterday, what I said today,
without that, we won't really act well in that.
This is what I said yesterday, and today this is your mother.
All those are, in a way, what we call, in a way, lunch bed, lunch bed, lunch bed.
When you go to the space shuttle challenges, challenges, space shuttle challenges,
space shuttle, the challenge is so famous, so powerful, so famous,
but without lunch bed, bed, it won't go.
It won't make you powerful.
What I said today and yesterday is like lunch bed, lunch bed.
Without that, it won't achieve.
The goal, what we want.
We have this lunch bed.
Then we can get really Dokkin practicing, nicely, perfectly.
Perfect, it is powerful.
Now, when you practice Dokkin, Dokkin, again, Dokkin practices how you are going to practice.
This is, again, in a Dokkin teaching, every great master says it.
Now, Dokkin practices, Dokkin teaching is the same as I have used terminology,
what the Buddha, generally the Buddha teaches.
Samad meditation and Vipassana meditation, these two meditations.
Samad meditation, we discussed.
Now, Vipassana meditation.
Vipassana meditation and Dokkin meditation is the same.
This is Vipassana meditation.
Dokkin is Vipassana meditation.
Vipassana meditation, generally, what do you do?
What do you do?
You see everything exactly where things are.
Where things are, according to teaching, according to those great masters,
where things are is emptiness.
Everything is emptiness.
Everything is emptiness, but it is also poem.
That's what in the heart of Sotar we write.
Poem is emptiness, emptiness is poem.
When you see that exactly as it is, poem is emptiness,
emptiness is the poem, that is realization of the Vipassana.
Perfect, exactly.
But how we start to realize that nature immediately?
Because our duality mind is so strong,
immediately we won't see poem is emptiness.
We won't see.
That's what we are.
Maybe we start to question why are these poems?
Because our habit better grasping is so strong.
It is accumulated or kind of added up from the beginning is so strong,
our understanding is tangible, solid, existing and conquered that things.
That is duality.
Reality, poem is emptiness.
Now to discover that both poem, emptiness, emptiness is a poem,
we started with meditating, we started from emptiness.
So we started emptiness, meditation.
Emptiness, as again many times every great master said,
and Kinti Parnejana, we said many times, emptiness is not negation status.
Negation is the poem.
That's what Buddha said, emptiness is the poem.
Poem is the emptiness, emptiness is no other than the poem.
Poem is no other than the emptiness.
Also what Buddha used the back and forth of that.
Bring up this total nature status.
But as I said, we started to kind of to begin to discover the nature of that exile.
So we started with the realization of the emptiness.
And also to start an emptiness realization from outside, object is difficult to us.
Again, to encounter, digest is difficult, understand is difficult.
So we start to go to the heart of the nature.
That's what the Dho Chititi is, going to the heart of the nature.
Nature, who is going to realize this nature, emptiness or not emptiness?
Who is doing this? All analyzation. Who is doing this?
Who is making all this? This is not emptiness, yes, emptiness.
This might be this, all this. Who is doing this?
Every kind of brain down to the bottom of these jewels.
There's nothing else than our mind.
Again, that is true.
Our mind is the decision maker and the projectile, everything.
So as the Buddha said, the Dho Chititi, now we go to the mind.
Mind is, because mind is everything. It's doing everything.
And so what is mind is? What is mind is?
And mind is now, it's empty. Mind is empty.
Where is the mind is empty? And we ask that question and then somebody will sit.
If mind is not empty, where is the mind?
And somebody says to us, where is your mind if not empty?
What will be our answer? What are we going to sit?
There's nothing else. There's nothing we can answer.
And mind is not just empty, empty, blank empty.
It is all that what we're talking about.
You're listening, I'm talking.
It's also performed and reflected, activated by mind.
All mind is disciplined. Yet, where is the mind?
Mind. There's no place of the mind that exists at all.
Anyway, we say in the brain many times, where is the brain?
Which part of the brain mind is?
How tall mind is? How wide is the mind is?
How deep is the mind? If we start asking all those questions,
there's nothing we can give answers, no answers at all.
And then in Buddhism, also in the teaching said, mind is in the heart.
Where is the heart? Which part of that?
If we start trying to pinpoint and locate the mind, nothing we can't.
There's no, no can locate the mind.
This is all teaching, what I'm saying is, teaching of the Buddha or this great master.
But you also investigate yourself. It's true enough.
Buddha teaching is not just a Buddha said, we follow, we listen, and I say, that's not.
Buddha says himself, exam my world, exam my teaching.
If it's true, you're excited. If not, you can say no.
When Buddha gives the teachings, generally in those whole kind of Buddha,
there are so many dialogues. Buddha says sometimes to a student, students say, no, teacher is not.
And the Buddha says, that's true, that's true.
It's not just Buddha said, and that's the final decision.
Buddha like to activate it, energize it, our understanding, our realizations, bring out exactly.
And that's, so in this case, although we, as we said, mind is empty,
we use all those terminology, what the Buddha great masters told, we should exam, we should analyze
, we see.
When you didn't find anything, we clearly have any answer, then that must be true.
Buddha says, mind is empty. All the great masters said, empty, it is emptiness, appearance.
Emptiness, yeah, is appearance. What is the appearance? All the conservatives' appearance.
All the conservatives from the eye, ear, nose, tongue, tongue, body and mind are all appearance.
Where they are, where they are, again, no base, nothing is transcendent.
This is what is really known as realization of the mind.
Because this is our meditation, we are going to meditate this, and Zoxi.
We are going to meditate on this. Therefore, we need confidence.
We must have confidence. With all the confidence, confirmation, then our meditation will be shaking
.
Therefore, firm, confident meditation. Then you don't have, once you have established it, then you
don't have to lingering.